In today's world, where sustainability and efficient resource utilisation are paramount, the energy consumption of buildings presents a significant challenge and an opportunity for innovation. This considerable consumption necessitates strategies for energy efficiency and timely resource allocation for retrofitting buildings. The project at hand aims to address this challenge by accurately predicting building energy usage, a complex task influenced by various factors such as weather conditions, building properties, and occupancy patterns.

This project uses electrical power metering data from different buildings at UC Berkeley such as – Sutardja, Gilman, and Sproul – to predict their energy consumption for the year 2023. The model utilises historical measurements, including current, active power demand, reactive power supply, and weather data elements of maximum and minimum daily temperatures. The data is split into training and test data and different Regression models are evaluated for their prediction of energy consumption for the different buildings. The Long-short-term memory (LSTM) time series model, the project aims to forecast future energy consumption accurately.

The goal is to guide resource allocation by identifying which buildings will likely require more energy and, consequently, infrastructure upgrades. This prioritisation is essential as it is impractical to allocate funds for capacity expansion to all buildings simultaneously. The predictive model also serves as a tool for fault detection by comparing actual consumption against predicted values.
